Template Literal 

  

In JavaScript, variables and expressions can be placed inside a string using template literals. Instead of using single or double quotes to surround them, backticks (') are used, and $ is used to denote placeholders for variables or expressions. 

Here is an example: 

  

~~~ 

let name = 'Gowtham'; 
let age = 23; 

console.log(`My name is ${name} and I am ${age} years old.`); 

~~~ 

  

The output will be My name is Gowtham and I am 23 years old. 


Loop Statements 

Different types of loop statements allow you to execute a block of code repeatedly. The three main types of loop statements are: 

For Loop 

  

The for loop allows you to loop through a block of code a specified number of times. 

  

The syntax of for loop is: 

  

~~~ 

for (initialization; condition; increment/decrement) 

{ 

  // code block to be executed 

} 

~~~ 

  

For example, 

  

~~~ 

for (let i = 1; i <= 5; i++)  

{ 

  console.log(i); 

} 

~~~ 

It starts by initializing the variable i to 1, and then it sets a condition that the loop will continue as long as i is less than or equal to 5.  

Then it specifies that i will be incremented by 1 after each iteration of the loop.  

Inside the loop, the console.log() statement will be executed each time, printing the value of i to the console.  

The loop will iterate five times, printing the numbers 1 through 5.  

Finally, the loop will terminate and control will pass to the next statement after the loop. 

  

  

While Loop 

  

The while loop allows you to loop through a block of code while a specified condition is true.  

  

The syntax of the while loop is: 

  

~~~ 

while (condition) 

{ 

  // code block to be executed 

} 

~~~ 

  

For example, 

  

~~~ 

let i = 1; 

while (i <= 5) 

{ 

  console.log(i); 

  i++; 

} 

~~~ 

  

First, it initializes a variable i to 1.  

Then, it enters the while loop, which continues to execute as long as the condition i <= 5 is true.  

Inside the loop, it prints the current value of i to the console using console.log() and then increments the value of i by 1 using the i++ shorthand for i = i + 1. 

The loop continues to run until i reaches the value of 6, at which point the condition i <= 5 is no longer true and the loop terminates.  

Therefore, the output of this code will be the numbers 1 through 5 printed to the console, each on a new line. 

  

Do While Loop 

  

The do-while loop is similar to the while loop, but the code block is executed at least once, even if the condition is false.  

  

The syntax of the do-while loop is: 

  

~~~ 

do  

{ 

  // code block to be executed 

} 

while (condition); 

~~~ 

  

For example, 


~~~ 

let i = 1; 

do  

{ 

  console.log(i); 

  i++; 

} 

while (i <= 5); 

~~~ 

  

The loop initializes the variable i to 1.  

Then, it enters a do block that executes the code within it once.  

Inside the block, it prints the value of i to the console using console.log(). After that, the value of i is incremented by 1. 

After executing the do block, the loop checks the while condition, which is i <= 5.  

If the condition is true, the loop continues to execute the do block again.  

This continues until the value of i reaches 6, at which point the condition becomes false, and the loop stops executing. 

  

Challenges 

  

I have faced some challenges while learning loop statements. Proper Incrementing of the variable was important inside the loop correctly to avoid unwanted results.  

There are 3 different types of loops in JavaScript and it can be challenging to choose the right one for a specific task. 

 

 
