Type Conversion 
  
In real-time projects there might be a requirement to convert one datatype into another datatype, then the concept type conversion comes into the picture. We as developers are trying to convert data from one format to another format. So, this process is called Explicit Conversion. Let us understand the concept with the help of an example 
~~~ 
  
let num = String(6) 
  
console.log(num, typeof num); 
  
~~~ 
  
In the above, we have converted the number datatype to string datatype. 
 
Coercion 
 
Coercion is the process of converting a value from one data type to another. For example, if you try to perform a mathematical operation on a string value, JavaScript will implicitly coerce the string to a number. 
~~~ 
 
let num = 42; 
let str = num + "abc"; 
console.log(str, typeof str); // "42" 
 
let numb = "xyz" 
let stri = numb + 48 
console.log(stri); 
 
~~~ 
The number 42 is converted into a string value in this example by being concatenated with an empty string. The value is validated to have been correctly converted into a string when the typeof operator returns "string." 
 
Operators 
 
Arithmetic operators are used to performing mathematical operations on numeric values. 
 
~~~ 
 
let x = 10; 
let y = 5; 
  
console.log(x + y); // Output: 15 
console.log(x - y); // Output: 5 
console.log(x * y); // Output: 50 
console.log(x / y); // Output: 2 
console.log(x % y); // Output: 0 
console.log(++x); // Output: 11 
console.log(--y); // Output: 4 
 
~~~ 
These are the basic arithmetic operators we use in JavaScript. 
 
Relational operators are utilized to assess two values and generate a Boolean outcome of either true or false. 
 
~~~ 
let x = 10;  
let y = 5; 
 
console.log(x > y); // Output: true  
console.log(x < y); // Output: false  
console.log(x >= y); // Output: true 
console.log(x <= y); // Output: false  
console.log(x == y); // Output: false  
console.log(x != y); // Output: true  
console.log(x === y); // Output: false  
console.log(x !== y); // Output: true 
~~~ 
These are the basic relational operators we use in JavaScript. 
 
Logical operators are used to combining two or more expressions and return a boolean value. 
~~~ 
 
let x = 10;  
let y = 5; 
let z = 3; 
 
let result = x < y && x < z 
console.log(result); // Output: false  
 
let resul = x < y || x < z 
console.log(resul); // Output: false  
 
let resu = resul 
console.log(resu); // Output: false 
 
~~~ 
 
These are the basic logical operators we use in JavaScript. 
 
The Challenges I faced this week are very few. I could not go through all the concepts but managed what I need to cover this week. The coercion concept was a little tricky and it took some time for me to understand the concept I was a little confused when I was going through the Logical Operators concept because the output changes for every condition. So, I had to go through the concept again and clarify my doubts. 
 
 
 
