I am using NodeJS 18.14.0 version and Visual Studio Code to implement the JavaScript code. I started learning JavaScript concepts like Variables and Data Types by using ChatGPT and some YouTube Videos. I would like to explain my learning in detail. 

  

  

Variables 

  

A variable in JavaScript is a specified location where data values are stored. Using a keyword called " let " we can create a variable. Variable names in JavaScript are case sensitive. The variable names should start with an alphabet or an underscore character and should not start with a number. The scope of a variable is the region in which it is defined. JavaScript Variables have only two scopes. 

1. Global Variable -- A global variable can be defined anywhere in our JavaScript code. 

2. Local Variable -- A local variable will be visible only within a function where it is defined. 

  

A basic code that helps us understand variables. 

  

``` 
  
let num = 4 
console.log(num) 

num = 9 
console.log(num) 
 
let user_name = "Gowtham" 
console.log(user_name) 

``` 

In this code, First I took a variable called num, assigned a value to it and printed the value. In the next line I am changing the value of num variable and printing the new value. In the third line, I took a string named user_name and assigned a value to it in double quotes and printed the string in the next line. 

  

  

Constants are variables whose value cannot be changed once it is assigned. Constants are declared using the " const " keyword, followed by the name of the constant. Constants are useful when you need to store values that should not change such as mathematical constants. For Example: 

  

``` 

let radius = 5 
const pie = 3.14 

let area 
area = pie * radius * radius 

console.log(area) 

``` 

  

In this Example, the variable pie was declared as " const " means that its value cannot be changed later. If we try to assign a new value to the constant, it will result in a " Type Error ". 

  

  

Data Types 

  

A Data Type defines the type of value a variable can hold. There are 3 main Data Types in JavaScript. 

  

1. Number: Used to store numeric values such as integers and floating-point numbers. 

2. String: Used to store text values written in single or double quotes. 

3. Boolean: Used to store a value that is either 'true' or 'false'. 

  

  

These Data Types can be explained in the following code: 

  

``` 

let digit= 4.545543 
console.log(digit) 

let firstName = "Gowtham" 
let lastName = "Reddy" 
let user = firstName + lastName 
console.log(user) 

let bool = 46 < 85 
console.log(bool) 

``` 

  

Challenges Faced 

  

Understanding variables and data types in JavaScript requires practice and patience. It may take time to fully grasp these concepts, but once we are done, we will be able to write more efficient and effective JavaScript code. 
