Conditional Statement 

They allow us to control the flow of your program based on certain conditions. 
The most common types of conditional statements in JavaScript are if, else if, and else.

~~~

let num1 = 10;
let num2 = 9;
let num3 = 7;

if(num1 > num2 && num1 > num3)
{
    console.log("num1 is greatest");
}
else if(num2 > num3)
{
    console.log("num2 is greatest");
}
else
{
    console.log("num3 is greatest");
}
console.log("Bye..!!")

~~~

The first if statement determines if num1 is greater than num2 and num3 and outputs "num1 is greatest" if it is. 
If the first condition is not satisfied, the else if clause determines whether num2 is greater than num3 
and prints "num2 is greatest" if it is. 
Last but not least, the else statement outputs "num3 is greatest" if neither of the above conditions is true.


Ternary Operator

The ternary operator is a shorter way of writing an if-else statement. 
It takes three operands: a condition followed by a ?, the expression to execute if the condition is true, followed by a : and the expression to execute if the condition is false.

The syntax for the ternary operator is:

~~~

condition ? expression1 : expression2;

~~~

Here is an example:
~~~

let num = 7;
let result;

result = num%2===0 ? "Even" : "Odd"
console.log(result)

~~~

The ternary operator (? :) is used to check whether the remainder of num divided by 2 is equal to 0 
If the condition is true, the string "Even" is assigned to result.
If the condition is false the string "Odd" is assigned to result.


Switch Statement


It is used to perform different actions based on different conditions. 
It is often used as an alternative to a series of if-else statements when the conditions are mutually exclusive. 

~~~

let day = "Wednesday";

switch(day) {
  case 'Monday':
    console.log("7am");
    break;
  case 'Tuesday':
    console.log("4am");
    break;
  case 'Wednesday':
    console.log("4am");
    break;
  case 'Thursday':
    console.log("4am");
    break;
  case 'Friday':
    console.log("9am");
    break;
  case 'Saturday':
    console.log("8am");
    break;
  case "Sunday":
    console.log("8am");
    break;
  default:
    dayName = "At yuor own time";
}

console.log("Bye..!!"); 

~~~

In this example I want to print out a different message based on the day of the week stored in the day variable. 
If the day is "Monday", the console will output "7am", if it's "Tuesday", "Wednesday", or "Thursday", 
the console will output "4am", if it's "Friday", the console will output "9am", if it's "Saturday" or "Sunday", 
the console will output "8am", and if it's any other value, the console will output "At your own time". 
After the switch statement, the console will output "Bye..!!".

Challenges

Understanding the appropriate use of each statement was a challenge for me. Practice can help improve understanding of these concepts.
