---
tilte: "Week 1"
date: 2023-02-01
---

JavaScript is a high-level programming language used for building dynamic web pages. It can be used on both the front-end and back-end of an applicatiion and it is also known for its key features like
1. Versatality.
2. Interpreted Language.
3. Object-Oriented.
4. Dynamic-Typing.

JavaScript is built into most web browsers such as Google Chrome, Mozilla Firefox, Apple Safari and Microsoft Edge to run the JavaScript code. In Chrome, V8 engine is used to run the code similarly in Firefox, Spider Monkey is used . If we want to run the code on server-side then we need to install Node.js which is build on top of Chrome's V8 engine. First we need to download the latest version of Node.js from its official website and complete the installation process. After that we can open the terminal and type "node -v" to check the latest version is installed or not.

Variables in JavaScript are declared using "let" keyword. I would explain this with an example
```
let name = "Gowtham";

```
In this example, name is the variable name and "Gowtham" is the value that is assigned to the variable.

In JavaScript, variables are dynamically typed which means that the type of a variable can change at runtime. For example, you can change the value of a variable from a string to a number like this:
```

let name = "Gowtham";
name = 42;

```

Asynchronous programming in JavaScript allows your code to run in the background without blocking the main execution thread. This makes it possible for your code to run multiple tasks simultaneously and to respond to user actions or other events in real-time.


First Program in JavaScript

```
console.log("Hello, World!");
```
